# EC2 101
### What is EC2 
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute 
capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server 
instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing
requirements change.
 
Basically, it's virtual machines in the cloud.

### The past
Before cloud computing if we needed a database in the server, you'd have to setup processes, RAM,
 disc sizes, SSD drives, et cetera. You then had to figure out what was equivalent to a "lease" 
 on the tangible servers. Then a team would rack the server, install any components/wiring, and 
 then the sysadmins would have to set everything else up.
 
When Cloud Competing initially hit the market it changed the way we create and architect 
solutions to our network problems. 

### The now
Amazon EC2 changes the ecnomomics of computing by allowing your to pay only for capacity that you
 actually use. Amazon EC2 provides developers the tools to build failure resilient applications 
 and isolate themselves from common failure scenarios.
 
### EC2 Options
* On Demand Instance - allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no 
commitment. 
By the second for LINUX instances only, Windows instances are only by the hour, but will release 
by the end of 2018

* Reserved Instance - provide you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on 
the hourly charge for an instance. 1 year or 3 year cotract where you pay up front, the more you 
pay the bigger the discount. If you fully understand your application and know what to anticipate in regard to traffic this may be the most economical
 model.

* Spot - enable you to bid whatever price you want for your instance capacity, providing for even
 greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times. Spot rate will go up and
  down just like currency depending on supply and demand. You set a bid price for by the hour or 
  by the second, 

* Dedicated Hosts - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you 
reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses. Oracle and 
VMware when you need dedicated hosts. Also if a company or government entity want to avoid a 
multi-tenant scenario if the company is worried about security concerns for whatever reason, this
 may be a more enticing choice.
   
### On Demand
* Users that want the low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any up-front payment or 
long-term commitment.
* Applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
* Applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.

### Reserved
* Applications with predictable usage
* Applications that require reserved capacity
* Users/companies able to make upfront payments to reduce their total computing costs even further
    * Standard Reserved Instances (Up to 75% off on demand)
    * Convertable Reserved Instances (Up to 54% off on demand) capability to change the 
    attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of Reserved Instances of
     equal or greater value.
    * Scheduled Reserved Instances available to launch within the time windows you reserve. 
    This option allows you to match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week, or a month.
    
#### Spot
* Application that have flexible start and end times
* Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices
* Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity
 
#### Dedicated Hosts
* Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization
* Great for licensing which does not support mulit-tenancy or cloud deployments
* Can be purchased On-Deman (hourly)
* Can be purchased as a Reservation for up to 70% off the On-Demand Price.

## EC2 Instance Types
(presenting as JS Objects in a JS Array to map later)

    const EC2InstanceTypes = [
        {
            family: 'D2',
            mnemonic: 'D is for Density',
            specialty: 'Dense Storage',
            useCase: 'Fileservers/Data Warehousing/Hadoop',    
        },
        {
            family: 'R4',
            mnemonic: 'Think R for RAM',
            specialty: 'Memory Optimized',
            useCase: 'Memory Intensive Apps/DBs',
        },
        {
            family: 'M4',
            mnemonic: 'Main Choice',
            specialty: 'General Purpose',
            useCase: 'Application Servers',
        },
        {
            family: 'C4',
            mnemonic: 'Computers',
            specialty: 'Compute Optimized',
            useCase: 'CPU Intensive Apps/DBs',
        },
        {
            family: 'G2',
            mnemonic: 'Think G for Graphics',
            specialty: 'Graphics Intensive',
            useCase: 'Video Encoding/3D Application Streaming',
        },
        {
            family: 'I2',
            mnemonic: 'I for IOPS (Input/output operations per second)',
            specialty: 'High Speed Storage',
            useCase: 'NoSQL DBs, Data Warehousing etc',
        },
        {
            family: 'F1',
            mnemonic: 'Field Programmable Gates',
            specialty: 'Field Programmable Gate Array',
            useCase: 'Hardware acceleration for your code.',
        },        
        {
            family: 'T2',
            specialty: 'Lowest Cost, General Purpose',
            useCase: 'Web Servers/Small DBs',
        },        
        {
            family: 'P2',
            mnemonic: 'P for Processor',
            specialty: 'Graphics/General Purpose GPU',
            useCase: 'Machine Learning, Bit Coin Mining etc',
        },
        {
            family: 'X1',
            mnemonic: 'extreme RAM',
            specialty: 'Memory Optimized',
            useCase: 'SAP HANA/Apache Spark etc',
        },
    ];
    
#### DIRTMCGFPX - DR Mc GIFT PX
* **D** for Density
* **R** for RAM
* **M** - main choice for general purpose apps
* **C** for Compute
* **G** for Graphics
* **I** for IOPS (Input/output operations per second)
* **F** for FPGA
* **T** cheap general purpose (think T2 Micro)
* **P** - Graphics (think Pics)
* **X** - Extreme Memory

## What is EBS?
Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances.
Once attached to your EC2 instances, you can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a block device.
Amazon EBS volumes are placed in a specific Availability Zone, where they are automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component.

Think of EBS as disks that you would attach to your EC2 instances.

### EBS Volume Types
* General Purpose SSD (Referred to as GP2's)
    * General purpose, balances both price and performance (Solid State Drive).
    * Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,000 IOPS and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB and above.
* Provisioned IOPS SSD (called IO1's)
    * Designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases.
    * **Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS** (Input/Output Operations Per Second)
    * Can provision up to 32,000 IOPS per volume. 
* Throughput Optimized HDD (called ST1's)
    * Big data
    * Data warehouses
    * Log processing
    * Cannot be a boot volume (you can't boot from these particular drives)
* Cold HDD (called SC1's)
    * Lowest Cost Storage for infrequently accessed workloads
    * File Server - poosible alternate for S3 
    * Cannot be boot volumes
* Magnetic (Standard)
    * Lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volume types that **is bootable**. 
    Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, and applications where the lowest storage cost is important.
    
### EC2 Exam Tips 
* Know the differences between:
    * On Demand
    * Spot
    * Reserved
    * Dedicated Hosts
* Remember with spot instances:
    * If you terminate the instance, you pay for the hour
    * If AWS terminates the spot instance, you get the hour it was terminated in for free.
* EBS Consists of:
    * SSD, General Purpose - GP2 - (up to 10,000 IOPS)
    * SSD, Provisioned IOPS - IO1 - (More than 10,000 IOPS)
    * HDD, Throughput Optimized - ST1 - frequently accessed workloads
    * HDD, Cold - SC1 - less frequently accessed data.
    * HDD, Magnetic - Standard - cheap, infrequently accessed storage
    
    * **IMPORTANT** Cannot mount 1 EBS volume to multiple EC2 instances at once, instead use EFS
    
* EC2 Instance Types:
    * **DR MCGIFTPX**
        * **D** for Density
        * **R** for RAM
        * **M** - main choice for general purpose apps
        * **C** for Compute
        * **G** for Graphics
        * **I** for IOPS (Input/output operations per second)
        * **F** for FPGA
        * **T** cheap general purpose (think T2 Micro)
        * **P** - Graphics (think Pics)
        * **X** - Extreme Memory